Without a will, some countries
can take part or all of what you own
and keep it from being distributed for ages.
We need to protect and enable your estate
to be transferred to your loved ones.
And all regions are different
but you need to hire a wills and trust lawyer
to make your will.
It takes a few hours and you only need to do this
one time in your life.
Most Americans actually die without a will or a trust.
A will and a trust basically means that the entity
that holds these items protects your assets.
I'll get back to trusts in a minute.
Let's focus on the will first.
Gosh, this is depressing.
We need some help from another "will," Will Ferrell.
Okay, so I'm going to have to actually put up
a couple of Will Ferrell images here
cause he's the happy "will."
Sorry a little out there I know
but it's depressing otherwise.
Okay, so when you hire a lawyer to create your will
they will help you create the actual will document.
They'll explain to you the entire process as well.
This is all they do.
A lot of lawyers just specialize in this area.
When the will has been created,
we need to give a sealed copy of the will
to whomever the executor of the will, will be,
meaning the person that will say who gets what
and what happens to you if God forbid
you pass away or you become incapacitated.
The executor of the will, such an awful name.
The executor of the will ensures that all your stuff
gets distributed and part of it to be sold
in order to cover taxes and other topics
like who the legal guardian
is for your children if applicable.
If you want, you can do this online at legalzoom.com
or other online resources, but I actually recommend
just hire a lawyer yourself and do it in person.
This document is important.
As a side note,
if this lecture makes you even slightly unhappy,
then we have to watch this Will Ferrell video here.
Watch that.
Sorry, moving on, I have to try to make you happy sometime.
Let's talk about trusts,
The circle of trust.
Sometimes, you'll actually see or hear of terms
like, and I'm going to make this one up
The Chris and Christine Haroon Revocable Trust
dated January 14, 2017.
That's just an example.
Whenever you see a title like that
it's kind of like a will, prepared by the same lawyer
that created your will,
but what it does, is it creates rules for who gets what
while protecting your assets so the government
and others can't take them.
And it gets a little bit complicated
which is why I recommend hiring a lawyer to do this
as you will have a lot of questions
kind of like what happens to your retirement accounts?
How does your life insurance proceeds get paid out?
How are your children taken care of, et cetera?
Do they only receive proceeds
if they get a university degree
or if they reach a certain age,
or if they finish Call of Duty?
I'm kidding about the Call of Duty part, et cetera.
Also, ask the lawyer about setting up
a charitable trust, too,
which is a really nice thing to do.
If taxes where you live are ridiculously high
for estate taxes when you pass away
then ask your lawyer to also set up a way
to transfer some of your assets
while you are still alive if you want.
When you see the word revocable
in the title of a trust, this basically means
that whoever made the trust, not the lawyer,
meaning you, whoever made the trust
you have the legal right to make changes to this trust.
If you make it irrevocable, "ir" at the beginning
irrevocable, which I don't recommend
then you cannot change it no matter what.
A trust can decrease the amount of taxes
when transferring assets to others.
It can also get very complicated
which again is why I recommend to hire a lawyer
to draft this document.
A trust can also help to get your assets
to immediately be transferred to your kids
or whomever is listed in your will.
Ask your friends and relatives and co workers, et cetera
if you like them, to recommend a local lawyer
to help you create your will and trust.
I really hate dealing with lawyers
but you have to do this when you set up your will and trust.
The only lawyer I don't mind is this fellow Canadian
who is the most honest lawyer you'll ever see
per this link here.